---
layout: post
title:  "P5.js Reference"
date:   2017-09-13
tags: [Creative Coding]
---

### Rendering

`createCanvas()`

```javascript
function setup() {
  createCanvas(100, 50);
  background(153);
  line(0, 0, width, height);
}
```
Creates a canvas element in the document, and sets the dimensions of it in pixels. This method should be called only once at the start of setup. Calling createCanvas more than once in a sketch will result in very unpredicable behavior. If you want more than one drawing canvas you could use <mark>createGraphics</mark> (hidden by default but it can be shown).

The system variables width and height are set by the parameters passed to this function. If createCanvas() is not used, the window will be given a **default** size of 100x100 pixels.

For more ways to position the canvas, see the [positioning the canvas](https://github.com/processing/p5.js/wiki/Positioning-your-canvas) wiki page.

- Centering the sketch on the page with CSS(flexbox)
- Relocating the canvas inside an existing HTML element

> createCanvas(w, h, [renderer])

- w
  - Number: width of the canvas
- h
  - Number: height of the canvas
- renderer
  - Constant: either <mark>P2D</mark> or <mark>WEBGL</mark>


`resizeCanvas()`

```javascript
function setup() {
  createCanvas(windowWidth, windowHeight);
}

function draw() {
 background(0, 100, 200);
}

function windowResized() {
  resizeCanvas(windowWidth, windowHeight);
}
```

Resizes the canvas to given width and height. The canvas will be cleared and draw will be called immediately, allowing the sketch to re-render itself in the resized canvas.

> resizeCanvas(w, h, noRedraw)

- w
  - Number: width of the canvas
- h
  - Number: height of the canvas
- noRedraw
  - Boolean: don't redraw the canvas immediately

`noCanvas()`

```javascript
function setup() {
  noCanvas();
}
```

Removes the default canvas for a p5 sketch that doesn't require a canvas

> noCanvas()

`createGraphics()`

```javascript
var pg;
function setup() {
  createCanvas(100, 100);
  pg = createGraphics(100, 100);
}
function draw() {
  background(200);
  // setup createGraphics canvas
  pg.background(100);
  pg.noStroke();
  pg.ellipse(pg.width/2, pg.height/2, 50, 50);
  // set position of the createGraphics
  image(pg, 50, 50);
  image(pg, 0, 0, 50, 50);
}
```

Creates and returns a new p5.Renderer object. Use this class if you need to draw into an **off-screen graphics buffer**. The two parameters define the width and height in pixels.

> createGraphics(w, h, [renderer])

- w
  - Number: width of the offscreen graphics buffer
- h
  - Number: height of the offscreen graphics buffer
- renderer
  - Constant: either P2D or WEBGL undefined defaults to p2d

`createGraphics()` 不会自动显示需要手动加载，它由两个部分完成  

1 设置默认参数，这一步图像是不会显示的  
2 利用 `image()` 语句加载

`blendMode()`

```javascript
blendMode(LIGHTEST);
strokeWeight(30);
stroke(80, 150, 255);
line(25, 25, 75, 75);
stroke(255, 50, 50);
line(75, 25, 25, 75);

blendMode(MULTIPLY);
strokeWeight(30);
stroke(80, 150, 255);
line(25, 25, 75, 75);
stroke(255, 50, 50);
line(75, 25, 25, 75);
```

Blends the pixels in the display window according to the defined mode. There is a choice of the following modes to blend the source pixels (A) with the ones of pixels already in the display window (B)

> blendMode(mode)

- BLEND - linear interpolation/插值 of colours: C = Afactor + B. This is the **default** blending mode.

- ADD - sum of A and B

- DARKEST - only the darkest colour succeeds: C = min(Afactor, B).
- LIGHTEST - only the lightest colour succeeds: C = max(A*factor, B).

- DIFFERENCE - subtract colors from underlying image.
- EXCLUSION - similar to DIFFERENCE, but less extreme.

- MULTIPLY - multiply the colors, result will always be darker.
- SCREEN - opposite multiply, uses inverse values of the colors.

- REPLACE - the pixels entirely replace the others and don't utilize alpha (transparency) values.
- OVERLAY - mix of MULTIPLY and SCREEN . Multiplies dark values, and screens light values.

- HARD_LIGHT - SCREEN when greater than 50% gray, MULTIPLY when lower.
- SOFT_LIGHT - mix of DARKEST and LIGHTEST. Works like OVERLAY, but not as harsh.

- DODGE - lightens light tones and increases contrast, ignores darks.
- BURN - darker areas are applied, increasing contrast, ignores lights.
